This is a distribution of a program called "3col"; its purpose is
to convert text to PostScript, with particular emphasis on being
able to pack a lot of text onto each page.

If that's not what you wanted, perhaps you downloaded the wrong file. :-)

In slightly more detail: By default, 3col produces output for A4 paper
in landscape orientation, consisting of 3 columns of 100 93-character
lines each, in 5-point Courier condensed to 90% of its default width.

But if you'd prefer output for "legal" paper in portrait orientation,
in two columns of whatever width that produces when you print in 4.8-point
<some other monospaced font>, expanded to 112% of its default width, with
line numbers in the margin every 20 lines, wider separating lines between
the columns, and slightly wider line spacing, you can have it. You can
even make that the standard for all users at your site without having to
recompile.

3col also has facilities for some basic markup (bold-face text, italics,
headings in different fonts, and so on), and will (if you really must)
allow you to embed arbitrary PostScript in your output.

                                 - * -

You are free to use and distribute this file in any way you please;
you are NOT free to modify it. If you have an improvement to suggest,
please let me know; I'm generally helpful.

Copyright for the program remains with me, Gareth McCaughan.

                                 - * -

There is extensive documentation in the file "Docs" in this directory,
and there's a summary in the file "Summary". For those in a real hurry,
here's a summary of the summary.

Simplest use:
  3col some-text | lpr

Slightly more advanced:
  3col -title 'A page of text' some-text | lpr
  3col first-file second-file > output.ps
  3col -size 6 -title 'This is in 6-point type' blah | lpr -h
  nroff -man trn | 3col -title 'trn manpage' | lpr -h

There are *plenty* more options you can give.

                                 - * -

You might also want to look at the "manprint" program, included with
this release of 3col. It uses 3col to print out manpages with a bit
of nice (but straightforward) formatting. It requires Perl 5.

And if you have Perl 5, you might also want to look at "pod-3col.pl",
which sort-of converts the Perl 5 "pod" documentation format into
input for "3col -format". It's very flaky, but I have found it
useful.

                                 - * -

OK, that'll do for now. Enjoy.

        Gareth McCaughan
        gjm11@pmms.cam.ac.uk
